# Getting-and-cleaning-data-course-project
## The original dataset is from a study about Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones. The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. 
## Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist.
## The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 
## The orginal data set includes files containing measurement data generated by the accelerometer and the gyroscope from the smartphone, subject identifiers and activity type. 
## These data set were separated into a test data set and a training data set and are contained in a test and train foldres respectively. 
## All these files are in a folder called "UCI HAR Dataset". The "UCI HAR Dataset" was downloaded in the R working directory 

## The files for creating a tidy_data set are also placed in the "UCI HAR Dataset" directory and include: 
- run_analysis.R:  a R script that follows 5 different steps to generate from original data set a tidy dataset containing the mean of all the mean and frequency related variables 
- tidy_data.txt: a text file containing the output data set, ie the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.
- CodeBook.Rmd: the code book listing and describing all the variables

## To generate the tidy_data set, the run_analysis.R script applied the following steps:
 1. Combine all the data set about measurement, subject and activity from the training and the test set into one single dataframe.
 2. From this dataframe, extract only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. 
 3. Rename the values of the activitiy column using descriptive activity names  
 4. Appropriately rename all the variables of the the data set using descriptive variable names. 
 5. From the data set created from steps 2 to 4, creates a second, independent tidy_data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject. 

### The tidy_data set can be read with the following piece of code:
tidy_data <-read.table("./UCI HAR Dataset/tidy_data.txt", as.is = TRUE, sep = "\t", header = TRUE, quote = "")

### The run_analysis can be run using the following piece of code:
source("./UCI HAR Dataset/run_analysis.R")
